docs/en/migration-from-the-authcomponent.rst, before:

Migration from the AuthComponent
################################

Differences
===========

-  This plugin intentionally **does not** handle authorization. It was
   `decoupled <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coupling_(computer_programming)>`__
   from authorization on purpose for a clear `separation of
   concerns <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Separation_of_concerns>`__.
   See also `Computer access
   control <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer_access_control>`__.
   This plugin handles only *identification* and *authentication*. We
   might have another plugin for authorization.
-  There is no automatic checking of the session. To get the actual user
   data from the session you’ll have to use the
   ``SessionAuthenticator``. It will check the session if there is data
   in the configured session key and put it into the identity object.
-  The user data is no longer available through the AuthComponent but is
   accessible via a request attribute and encapsulated in an identity
   object: ``$request->getAttribute('authentication')->getIdentity();``
-  The logic of the authentication process has been split into
   authenticators and identifiers. An authenticator will extract the
   credentials from the request, while identifiers verify the
   credentials and find the matching user.
-  DigestAuthenticate has been renamed to HttpDigestAuthenticator
-  BasicAuthenticate has been renamed to HttpBasicAuthenticator

Similarities
============

-  All the existing authentication adapters, Form, Basic, Digest are
   still there but have been refactored into authenticators.

Identifiers and authenticators
==============================

Following the principle of separation of concerns, the former
authentication objects were split into separate objects, identifiers and
authenticators.

-  **Authenticators** take the incoming request and try to extract
   identification credentials from it. If credentials are found, they
   are passed to a collection of identifiers where the user is located.
   For that reason authenticators take an IdentifierCollection as first
   constructor argument.
-  **Identifiers** verify identification credentials against a storage
   system. eg. (ORM tables, LDAP etc) and return identified user data.

This makes it easy to change the identification logic as needed or use
several sources of user data.

If you want to implement your own identifiers, your identifier must
implement the ``IdentifierInterface``.

Migrating your authentication setup
===================================

Adding the authentication middleware
------------------------------------

Login action
------------

The ``AuthenticationMiddleware`` will handle checking and setting the
identity based on your authenticators. Usually after logging in,
``AuthComponent`` would redirect to a configured location. To redirect
upon a successful login, change your login action to check the new
identity results::

   public function login()
   {
       $result = $this->Authentication->getResult();

       // regardless of POST or GET, redirect if user is logged in
       if ($result->isValid()) {
           $redirect = $this->request->getQuery('redirect', ['controller' => 'Pages', 'action' => 'display', 'home']);
           return $this->redirect($redirect);
       }

       // display error if user submitted and authentication failed
       if ($this->request->is(['post']) && !$result->isValid()) {
           $this->Flash->error('Invalid username or password');
       }
   }

Checking identities
-------------------

After applying the middleware you can use identity data by using the
``identity`` request attribute. This replaces the
``$this->Auth->user()`` calls you are using now. If the current
user is unauthenticated or if the provided credentials were invalid, the
``identity`` attribute will be ``null``::

   $user = $request->getAttribute('identity');

For more details about the result of the authentication process you can
access the result object that also comes with the request and is
accessible on the ``authentication`` attribute::

   $result = $request->getAttribute('authentication')->getResult();
   // Boolean if the result is valid
   debug($result->isValid());
   // A status code
   debug($result->getStatus());
   // An array of error messages or data if the identifier provided any
   debug($result->getErrors());

Any place you were calling ``AuthComponent::setUser()``, you should now
use ``setIdentity()``::

   // Assume you need to read a user by access token
   $user = $this->Users->find('byToken', ['token' => $token])->first();

   // Persist the user into configured authenticators.
   $this->Authentication->setIdentity($user);

Migrate AuthComponent settings
------------------------------

The huge config array from the AuthComponent needs to be split into
identifiers and authenticators when configuring the service. So when you
had your AuthComponent configured this way

.. code:: php

   $this->loadComponent('Auth', [
       'authentication' => [
           'Form' => [
               'fields' => [
                   'username' => 'email',
                   'password' => 'password',
               ]
           ]
       ]
   ]);

You’ll now have to configure it this way::

   // Instantiate the service
   $service = new AuthenticationService();

   // Load identifiers
   $service->loadIdentifier('Authentication.Password', [
       'fields' => [
           'username' => 'email',
           'password' => 'password',
       ]
   ]);

   // Load the authenticators
   $service->loadAuthenticator('Authentication.Session');
   $service->loadAuthenticator('Authentication.Form');

If you have customized the ``userModel`` you can use the following
configuration::

   // Instantiate the service
   $service = new AuthenticationService();

   // Load identifiers
   $service->loadIdentifier('Authentication.Password', [
       'resolver' => [
           'className' => 'Authentication.Orm',
           'userModel' => 'Employees',
       ],
       'fields' => [
           'username' => 'email',
           'password' => 'password',
       ]
   ]);

While there is a bit more code than before, you have more flexibility in
how your authentication is handled.

Migrating allow/deny logic
--------------------------

Like ``AuthComponent`` the ``AuthenticationComponent`` makes it easy to
make specific actions ‘public’ and not require a valid identity to be
present::

   // In your controller's beforeFilter method.
   $this->Authentication->allowUnauthenticated(['view']);

Each call to ``allowUnauthenticated()`` will overwrite the current
action list.

Migrating Unauthenticated Redirects
===================================

By default ``AuthComponent`` redirects users back to the login page when
authentication is required. In contrast, the ``AuthenticationComponent``
in this plugin will raise an exception in this scenario. You can convert
this exception into a redirect using the ``unauthenticatedRedirect``
when configuring the AuthenticationMiddleware.

You can also pass the current request target URI as a query parameter
using the ``queryParam`` option::

   // in src/Application.php
   use Authentication\Middleware\AuthenticationMiddleware;

   public function middleware($middlewareQueue)
   {
       // Various other middlewares for error handling, routing etc. added here.

       // Add the authentication middleware
       $authentication = new AuthenticationMiddleware($this, [
           'unauthenticatedRedirect' => '/users/login',
           'queryParam' => 'redirect',
       ]);

       // Add authentication
       $middlewareQueue->add($authentication);

       return $middlewareQueue;
   }

Then in your controller's login method you can use the redirect query parameter::

    public function login()
    {
        $result = $this->Authentication->getResult();

        // Regardless of POST or GET, redirect if user is logged in
        if ($result->isValid()) {
            // Use the redirect parameter if present.
            $target = $this->Authentication->getLoginRedirect();
            if (!$target) {
                $target = ['controller' => 'Pages', 'action' => 'display', 'home'];
            }
            return $this->redirect($target);
        }
    }

Migrating Hashing Upgrade Logic
===============================

If your application uses ``AuthComponent``\ ’s hash upgrade
functionality. You can replicate that logic with this plugin by
leveraging the ``AuthenticationService``::

   public function login()
   {
       $result = $this->Authentication->getResult();

       // regardless of POST or GET, redirect if user is logged in
       if ($result->isValid()) {
           $authService = $this->Authentication->getAuthenticationService();

           // Assuming you are using the `Password` identifier.
           if ($authService->identifiers()->get('Password')->needsPasswordRehash()) {
               // Rehash happens on save.
               $user = $this->Users->get($this->Authentication->getIdentityData('id'));
               $user->password = $this->request->getData('password');
               $this->Users->save($user);
           }

           // Redirect to a logged in page
           return $this->redirect([
               'controller' => 'Pages',
               'action' => 'display',
               'home'
           ]);
       }
   }

Commit message:

Update for Migrating Unauthenticated Redirects
There is a Deprecated error for the given Migration steps. This is not working for latest version of CakePHP. This is deprecated from latest version of CakePHP. Instead, I tried with Service like following, 

$service->setConfig([
            'queryParam' => 'redirect',
            'unauthenticatedRedirect' => Router::url(["_name"=>"login"])
        ]);

But, it's not working.

docs/en/migration-from-the-authcomponent.rst, after:

Migration from the AuthComponent
################################

Differences
===========

-  This plugin intentionally **does not** handle authorization. It was
   `decoupled <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coupling_(computer_programming)>`__
   from authorization on purpose for a clear `separation of
   concerns <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Separation_of_concerns>`__.
   See also `Computer access
   control <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer_access_control>`__.
   This plugin handles only *identification* and *authentication*. We
   might have another plugin for authorization.
-  There is no automatic checking of the session. To get the actual user
   data from the session you’ll have to use the
   ``SessionAuthenticator``. It will check the session if there is data
   in the configured session key and put it into the identity object.
-  The user data is no longer available through the AuthComponent but is
   accessible via a request attribute and encapsulated in an identity
   object: ``$request->getAttribute('authentication')->getIdentity();``
-  The logic of the authentication process has been split into
   authenticators and identifiers. An authenticator will extract the
   credentials from the request, while identifiers verify the
   credentials and find the matching user.
-  DigestAuthenticate has been renamed to HttpDigestAuthenticator
-  BasicAuthenticate has been renamed to HttpBasicAuthenticator

Similarities
============

-  All the existing authentication adapters, Form, Basic, Digest are
   still there but have been refactored into authenticators.

Identifiers and authenticators
==============================

Following the principle of separation of concerns, the former
authentication objects were split into separate objects, identifiers and
authenticators.

-  **Authenticators** take the incoming request and try to extract
   identification credentials from it. If credentials are found, they
   are passed to a collection of identifiers where the user is located.
   For that reason authenticators take an IdentifierCollection as first
   constructor argument.
-  **Identifiers** verify identification credentials against a storage
   system. eg. (ORM tables, LDAP etc) and return identified user data.

This makes it easy to change the identification logic as needed or use
several sources of user data.

If you want to implement your own identifiers, your identifier must
implement the ``IdentifierInterface``.

Migrating your authentication setup
===================================

Adding the authentication middleware
------------------------------------

Login action
------------

The ``AuthenticationMiddleware`` will handle checking and setting the
identity based on your authenticators. Usually after logging in,
``AuthComponent`` would redirect to a configured location. To redirect
upon a successful login, change your login action to check the new
identity results::

   public function login()
   {
       $result = $this->Authentication->getResult();

       // regardless of POST or GET, redirect if user is logged in
       if ($result->isValid()) {
           $redirect = $this->request->getQuery('redirect', ['controller' => 'Pages', 'action' => 'display', 'home']);
           return $this->redirect($redirect);
       }

       // display error if user submitted and authentication failed
       if ($this->request->is(['post']) && !$result->isValid()) {
           $this->Flash->error('Invalid username or password');
       }
   }

Checking identities
-------------------

After applying the middleware you can use identity data by using the
``identity`` request attribute. This replaces the
``$this->Auth->user()`` calls you are using now. If the current
user is unauthenticated or if the provided credentials were invalid, the
``identity`` attribute will be ``null``::

   $user = $request->getAttribute('identity');

For more details about the result of the authentication process you can
access the result object that also comes with the request and is
accessible on the ``authentication`` attribute::

   $result = $request->getAttribute('authentication')->getResult();
   // Boolean if the result is valid
   debug($result->isValid());
   // A status code
   debug($result->getStatus());
   // An array of error messages or data if the identifier provided any
   debug($result->getErrors());

Any place you were calling ``AuthComponent::setUser()``, you should now
use ``setIdentity()``::

   // Assume you need to read a user by access token
   $user = $this->Users->find('byToken', ['token' => $token])->first();

   // Persist the user into configured authenticators.
   $this->Authentication->setIdentity($user);

Migrate AuthComponent settings
------------------------------

The huge config array from the AuthComponent needs to be split into
identifiers and authenticators when configuring the service. So when you
had your AuthComponent configured this way

.. code:: php

   $this->loadComponent('Auth', [
       'authentication' => [
           'Form' => [
               'fields' => [
                   'username' => 'email',
                   'password' => 'password',
               ]
           ]
       ]
   ]);

You’ll now have to configure it this way::

   // Instantiate the service
   $service = new AuthenticationService();

   // Load identifiers
   $service->loadIdentifier('Authentication.Password', [
       'fields' => [
           'username' => 'email',
           'password' => 'password',
       ]
   ]);

   // Load the authenticators
   $service->loadAuthenticator('Authentication.Session');
   $service->loadAuthenticator('Authentication.Form');

If you have customized the ``userModel`` you can use the following
configuration::

   // Instantiate the service
   $service = new AuthenticationService();

   // Load identifiers
   $service->loadIdentifier('Authentication.Password', [
       'resolver' => [
           'className' => 'Authentication.Orm',
           'userModel' => 'Employees',
       ],
       'fields' => [
           'username' => 'email',
           'password' => 'password',
       ]
   ]);

While there is a bit more code than before, you have more flexibility in
how your authentication is handled.

Migrating allow/deny logic
--------------------------

Like ``AuthComponent`` the ``AuthenticationComponent`` makes it easy to
make specific actions ‘public’ and not require a valid identity to be
present::

   // In your controller's beforeFilter method.
   $this->Authentication->allowUnauthenticated(['view']);

Each call to ``allowUnauthenticated()`` will overwrite the current
action list.

Migrating Unauthenticated Redirects
===================================

By default ``AuthComponent`` redirects users back to the login page when
authentication is required. In contrast, the ``AuthenticationComponent``
in this plugin will raise an exception in this scenario. You can convert
this exception into a redirect using the ``unauthenticatedRedirect``
when configuring the AuthenticationMiddleware.


You can also pass the current request target URI as a query parameter
using the ``queryParam`` option::

   // in src/Application.php
   use Authentication\Middleware\AuthenticationMiddleware;

   public function middleware($middlewareQueue)
   {
       // Various other middlewares for error handling, routing etc. added here.

       // Add the authentication middleware
       $authentication = new AuthenticationMiddleware($this, [
           'unauthenticatedRedirect' => '/users/login',
           'queryParam' => 'redirect',
       ]);

       // Add authentication
       $middlewareQueue->add($authentication);

       return $middlewareQueue;
   }

Then in your controller's login method you can use the redirect query parameter::

    public function login()
    {
        $result = $this->Authentication->getResult();

        // Regardless of POST or GET, redirect if user is logged in
        if ($result->isValid()) {
            // Use the redirect parameter if present.
            $target = $this->Authentication->getLoginRedirect();
            if (!$target) {
                $target = ['controller' => 'Pages', 'action' => 'display', 'home'];
            }
            return $this->redirect($target);
        }
    }
    
.. deprecated:: 4.0.0
    The `unauthenticatedRedirect` and `queryParam` configuration key on AuthenticationMiddleware is deprecated. 
    Instead set the  `unauthenticatedRedirect` and `queryParam` on your AuthenticationService instance.


Migrating Hashing Upgrade Logic
===============================

If your application uses ``AuthComponent``\ ’s hash upgrade
functionality. You can replicate that logic with this plugin by
leveraging the ``AuthenticationService``::

   public function login()
   {
       $result = $this->Authentication->getResult();

       // regardless of POST or GET, redirect if user is logged in
       if ($result->isValid()) {
           $authService = $this->Authentication->getAuthenticationService();

           // Assuming you are using the `Password` identifier.
           if ($authService->identifiers()->get('Password')->needsPasswordRehash()) {
               // Rehash happens on save.
               $user = $this->Users->get($this->Authentication->getIdentityData('id'));
               $user->password = $this->request->getData('password');
               $this->Users->save($user);
           }

           // Redirect to a logged in page
           return $this->redirect([
               'controller' => 'Pages',
               'action' => 'display',
               'home'
           ]);
       }
   }
