docs/Authenticators.md, before:

# Authenticators

## Session

This authenticator will check the session if it contains user data or credentials. When using any stateful authenticators like `Form` listed below, be sure to load `Session` authenticator first so that once logged in user data is fetched from session itself on subsequent requests.

Configuration options:

* **sessionKey**: The session key for the user data, default is `Auth`
* **identify**: Set this key with a value of bool `true` to enable checking the session credentials against the identifiers. Default is `false`. 

## Form

Looks up the data in the request body, usually when a form submit happens via POST / PUT.

Configuration options:

* **loginUrl**: The login URL, string or array of URLs. Default is `null` and all pages will be checked.
* **fields**: Array that maps `username` and `password` to the specified fields.
* **useRegex**: Whether or not to use regular expressions for URL matching. Default is `false`.
* **checkFullUrl**: Whether or not to check full URL. Useful when a login form is on a different subdomain. Default is `false`.

**Warning**: If you use the array syntax for the URL, the URL will be generated by the CakePHP router. The result *might* differ from what you actually have in the request URI depending on your route handling. So consider this to be case sensitive!

## Token

The token authenticator can authenticate a request based on a token that comes along with the request in the headers or in the request parameters.

Configuration options:

* **queryParam**: Name of the query parameter. Configure it if you want to get the token from the query parameters.
* **header**: Name of the header. Configure it if you want to get the token from the header.
* **tokenPrefix**: The optional token prefix.
* **dataField**: The data key passed to the identifier. Default is `token`.

## JWT

The JWT authenticator gets the [JWT token](https://jwt.io/) from the header or query param and either returns the payload directly or passes it to the identifiers to verify them against another datasource for example.

* **header**: The header line to check for the token. The default is `Authorization`.
* **queryParam**: The query param to check for the token. The default is `token`.
* **tokenPrefix**: The token prefix. Default is `bearer`.
* **algorithms**: An array of hashing algorithms for Firebase JWT. Default is an array `['HS256']`.
* **returnPayload**: To return or not return the token payload directly without going through the identifiers. Default is `true`.
* **secretKey**: Default is `null` but you're **required** to pass a secret key if you're not in the context of a CakePHP application that provides it through `Security::salt()`.

If you want to identify the user based on the `sub` (subject) of the token you can use the JwtSubject identifier.

```php
$service = new AuthenticationService();
$service->loadIdentifier('Authentication.JwtSubject');
$service->loadAuthenticator('Authentication.Jwt', [
    'returnPayload' => false
]);
```

## HttpBasic

See https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basic_access_authentication

Configuration options:

* **realm**: Default is `$_SERVER['SERVER_NAME']` override it as needed.

## HttpDigest

See https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digest_access_authentication

Configuration options:

* **realm**: Default is `null`
* **qop**: Default is `auth`
* **nonce**: Default is `uniqid(''),`
* **opaque**: Default is `null`

## Cookie Authenticator aka "Remember Me"

The Cookie Authenticator allows you to implement the "remember me" feature for your login forms.

Just make sure your login form has a field field that matches the field name that is configured in this authenticator.

Configuration options:

* **rememberMeField**: Default is `remember_me`
* **cookie**: Array of cookie options:
  * **name**: Cookie name, default is `CookieAuth`
  * **expire**: Expiration, default is `null`
  * **path**: Path, default is `/`
  * **domain**: Domain, default is an empty string ``
  * **secure**: Bool, default is `false`
  * **httpOnly**: Bool, default is `false`
  * **value**: Value, default is an empty string ``

## OAuth

There are currently no plans to implement an OAuth authenticator.
The main reason for this is that OAuth 2.0 is not an authentication protocol.

Read more about this topic [here](https://oauth.net/articles/authentication/).

We will maybe add an OpenID Connect authenticator in the future.

## Events

There is only one event that is fired by authentication: `Authentication.afterIdentify`.

If you don't know what events are and how to use them [check the documentation](https://book.cakephp.org/3.0/en/core-libraries/events.html).

The `Authentication.afterIdentify` event is fired by the `AuthenticationComponent` after an identity was successfully identified.

The event contains the following data:

 * **provider**: An object that implements `\Authentication\Authenticator\AuthenticatorInterface`
 * **identity**: An object that implements `\ArrayAccess`
 * **service**:  An object that implements `\Authentication\AuthenticationServiceInterface`

The subject of the event will be the current controller instance the AuthenticationComponent is attached to.

But the event is only fired if the authenticator that was used to identify the identity is *not* persistent and *not* stateless. The reason for this is that the event would be fired every time because the session authenticator or token for example would trigger it every time for every request.

From the included authenticators only the FormAuthenticator will cause the event to be fired. After that the session authenticator will provide the identity.

Commit message:

Adding notes about cookie encryption to the docs

docs/Authenticators.md, after:

# Authenticators

## Session

This authenticator will check the session if it contains user data or credentials. When using any stateful authenticators like `Form` listed below, be sure to load `Session` authenticator first so that once logged in user data is fetched from session itself on subsequent requests.

Configuration options:

* **sessionKey**: The session key for the user data, default is `Auth`
* **identify**: Set this key with a value of bool `true` to enable checking the session credentials against the identifiers. Default is `false`. 

## Form

Looks up the data in the request body, usually when a form submit happens via POST / PUT.

Configuration options:

* **loginUrl**: The login URL, string or array of URLs. Default is `null` and all pages will be checked.
* **fields**: Array that maps `username` and `password` to the specified fields.
* **useRegex**: Whether or not to use regular expressions for URL matching. Default is `false`.
* **checkFullUrl**: Whether or not to check full URL. Useful when a login form is on a different subdomain. Default is `false`.

**Warning**: If you use the array syntax for the URL, the URL will be generated by the CakePHP router. The result *might* differ from what you actually have in the request URI depending on your route handling. So consider this to be case sensitive!

## Token

The token authenticator can authenticate a request based on a token that comes along with the request in the headers or in the request parameters.

Configuration options:

* **queryParam**: Name of the query parameter. Configure it if you want to get the token from the query parameters.
* **header**: Name of the header. Configure it if you want to get the token from the header.
* **tokenPrefix**: The optional token prefix.
* **dataField**: The data key passed to the identifier. Default is `token`.

## JWT

The JWT authenticator gets the [JWT token](https://jwt.io/) from the header or query param and either returns the payload directly or passes it to the identifiers to verify them against another datasource for example.

* **header**: The header line to check for the token. The default is `Authorization`.
* **queryParam**: The query param to check for the token. The default is `token`.
* **tokenPrefix**: The token prefix. Default is `bearer`.
* **algorithms**: An array of hashing algorithms for Firebase JWT. Default is an array `['HS256']`.
* **returnPayload**: To return or not return the token payload directly without going through the identifiers. Default is `true`.
* **secretKey**: Default is `null` but you're **required** to pass a secret key if you're not in the context of a CakePHP application that provides it through `Security::salt()`.

If you want to identify the user based on the `sub` (subject) of the token you can use the JwtSubject identifier.

```php
$service = new AuthenticationService();
$service->loadIdentifier('Authentication.JwtSubject');
$service->loadAuthenticator('Authentication.Jwt', [
    'returnPayload' => false
]);
```

## HttpBasic

See https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basic_access_authentication

Configuration options:

* **realm**: Default is `$_SERVER['SERVER_NAME']` override it as needed.

## HttpDigest

See https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digest_access_authentication

Configuration options:

* **realm**: Default is `null`
* **qop**: Default is `auth`
* **nonce**: Default is `uniqid(''),`
* **opaque**: Default is `null`

## Cookie Authenticator aka "Remember Me"

The Cookie Authenticator allows you to implement the "remember me" feature for your login forms.

Just make sure your login form has a field field that matches the field name that is configured in this authenticator.

To encrypt and decrypt your cookie make sure you added the EncryptedCookieMiddleware to your app *before* the AuthenticationMiddleware. 

Configuration options:

* **rememberMeField**: Default is `remember_me`
* **cookie**: Array of cookie options:
  * **name**: Cookie name, default is `CookieAuth`
  * **expire**: Expiration, default is `null`
  * **path**: Path, default is `/`
  * **domain**: Domain, default is an empty string ``
  * **secure**: Bool, default is `false`
  * **httpOnly**: Bool, default is `false`
  * **value**: Value, default is an empty string ``

## OAuth

There are currently no plans to implement an OAuth authenticator.
The main reason for this is that OAuth 2.0 is not an authentication protocol.

Read more about this topic [here](https://oauth.net/articles/authentication/).

We will maybe add an OpenID Connect authenticator in the future.

## Events

There is only one event that is fired by authentication: `Authentication.afterIdentify`.

If you don't know what events are and how to use them [check the documentation](https://book.cakephp.org/3.0/en/core-libraries/events.html).

The `Authentication.afterIdentify` event is fired by the `AuthenticationComponent` after an identity was successfully identified.

The event contains the following data:

 * **provider**: An object that implements `\Authentication\Authenticator\AuthenticatorInterface`
 * **identity**: An object that implements `\ArrayAccess`
 * **service**:  An object that implements `\Authentication\AuthenticationServiceInterface`

The subject of the event will be the current controller instance the AuthenticationComponent is attached to.

But the event is only fired if the authenticator that was used to identify the identity is *not* persistent and *not* stateless. The reason for this is that the event would be fired every time because the session authenticator or token for example would trigger it every time for every request.

From the included authenticators only the FormAuthenticator will cause the event to be fired. After that the session authenticator will provide the identity.
