docs/Identifiers.md, before:

# Identifiers

Identifiers will identify an user or service based on the information that was extracted from the request by the authenticators.

## Password

The password identifier checks the passed credentials against a datasource.

Configuration options:

* **fields**: The fields for the lookup. Default is `['username' => 'username', 'password' => 'password']`.
  You can also set the `username` to an array. For e.g. using
  `['username' => ['username', 'email'], 'password' => 'password']` will allow
  you to match value of either username or email columns.
* **resolver**: The identity resolver. Default is `Authentication.Orm` which uses CakePHP ORM.
* **passwordHasher**: Password hasher. Default is `DefaultPasswordHasher::class`.

## Token

Checks the passed token against a datasource.

Configuration options:

* **tokenField**: The field in the database to check against. Default is `token`.
* **dataField**: The field in the passed data from the authenticator. Default is `token`.
* **resolver**: The identity resolver. Default is `Authentication.Orm` which uses CakePHP ORM.

## JWT Subject

Checks the passed JWT token against a datasource.

* **tokenField**: The field in the database to check against. Default is `id`.
* **dataField**: The payload key to get user identifier from. Default is `sub`.
* **resolver**: The identity resolver. Default is `Authentication.Orm` which uses CakePHP ORM.

## LDAP

Checks the passed credentials against a LDAP server. This identifier requires the PHP LDAP extension.

* **fields**: The fields for the lookup. Default is `['username' => 'username', 'password' => 'password']`.
* **host**: The FQDN of your LDAP server.
* **port**: The port of your LDAP server. Defaults to `389`.
* **bindDN**: The Distinguished Name of the user to authenticate. Must be a callable. Anonymous binds are not supported.
* **ldap**: The extension adapter. Defaults to `\Authentication\Identifier\Ldap\ExtensionAdapter`.
  You can pass a custom object/classname here if it implements the `AdapterInterface`.
* **options**: Additional LDAP options, like `LDAP_OPT_PROTOCOL_VERSION` or `LDAP_OPT_NETWORK_TIMEOUT`.
  See [php.net](http://php.net/manual/en/function.ldap-set-option.php) for more valid options.

## Callback

Allows you to use a callback for identification. This is useful for simple identifiers or quick prototyping.

Configuration options:

* **callback**: Default is `null` and will cause an exception. You're required to pass a valid callback to this option to use the authenticator.

# Identifier resolvers

Identifier resolvers provide adapters for different datasources. They allow
you to control which source identities are searched in. They are separate from
the identifiers so that they can be swapped out independently from the
identifier method (form, jwt, basic auth).

## ORM Resolver

Identity resolver for the CakePHP ORM.

Configuration options:

* **userModel**: The user model identities are located in. Default is `Users`.
* **finder**: The finder to use with the model. Default is `all`.

In order to use ORM resolver you must require `cakephp/orm` in your `composer.json` file.

## Writing your own resolver

Authentication plugin can work with any ORM or datasource. All you need is to write your own resolver.
Resolvers must implement `Authentication\Identifier\Resolver\ResolverInterface` and should reside under `App\Identifier\Resolver` namespace.

Resolver can be configured using `resolver` config option:

```php
$service->loadIdentifier('Authentication.Password', [
    'resolver' => 'Custom' //or full class name: \Some\Other\Custom\Resolver::class
]);
```

Or injected using a setter:

```php
$resolver = new \App\Identifier\Resolver\CustomResolver();
$identifier = $service->loadIdentifier('Authentication.Password');
$identifier->setResolver($resolver);
```

Commit message:

Improve identifier docs.
I had to do some source diving to figure out how to define all the
options, so I wanted to not do that again.

docs/Identifiers.md, after:

# Identifiers

Identifiers will identify an user or service based on the information that was extracted from the request by the authenticators. Identifiers can take options in the `loadIdentifier` method. A holistic example of using the Password Identifier looks like:

```php
$service->loadIdentifier('Authentication.Password', [
    'fields' => [
        'username' => 'email',
        'password' => 'passwd',
    ],
    'resolver' => [
        'className' => 'Authentiation.Orm',
        'finder' => 'active'
    ],
    'passwordHasher' => [
        'className' => 'Authentication.Fallback',
        'hashers' => [
            ['Authentication.Default'],
            [
                'className' => 'Authentication.Legacy',
                'hashType' => 'md5'
            ],
        ]
    ]
]);
```

## Password

The password identifier checks the passed credentials against a datasource.

Configuration options:

* **fields**: The fields for the lookup. Default is `['username' => 'username', 'password' => 'password']`.
  You can also set the `username` to an array. For e.g. using
  `['username' => ['username', 'email'], 'password' => 'password']` will allow
  you to match value of either username or email columns.
* **resolver**: The identity resolver. Default is `Authentication.Orm` which uses CakePHP ORM.
* **passwordHasher**: Password hasher. Default is `DefaultPasswordHasher::class`.

## Token

Checks the passed token against a datasource.

Configuration options:

* **tokenField**: The field in the database to check against. Default is `token`.
* **dataField**: The field in the passed data from the authenticator. Default is `token`.
* **resolver**: The identity resolver. Default is `Authentication.Orm` which uses CakePHP ORM.

## JWT Subject

Checks the passed JWT token against a datasource.

* **tokenField**: The field in the database to check against. Default is `id`.
* **dataField**: The payload key to get user identifier from. Default is `sub`.
* **resolver**: The identity resolver. Default is `Authentication.Orm` which uses CakePHP ORM.

## LDAP

Checks the passed credentials against a LDAP server. This identifier requires the PHP LDAP extension.

* **fields**: The fields for the lookup. Default is `['username' => 'username', 'password' => 'password']`.
* **host**: The FQDN of your LDAP server.
* **port**: The port of your LDAP server. Defaults to `389`.
* **bindDN**: The Distinguished Name of the user to authenticate. Must be a callable. Anonymous binds are not supported.
* **ldap**: The extension adapter. Defaults to `\Authentication\Identifier\Ldap\ExtensionAdapter`.
  You can pass a custom object/classname here if it implements the `AdapterInterface`.
* **options**: Additional LDAP options, like `LDAP_OPT_PROTOCOL_VERSION` or `LDAP_OPT_NETWORK_TIMEOUT`.
  See [php.net](http://php.net/manual/en/function.ldap-set-option.php) for more valid options.

## Callback

Allows you to use a callback for identification. This is useful for simple identifiers or quick prototyping.

Configuration options:

* **callback**: Default is `null` and will cause an exception. You're required to pass a valid callback to this option to use the authenticator.

# Identifier resolvers

Identifier resolvers provide adapters for different datasources. They allow
you to control which source identities are searched in. They are separate from
the identifiers so that they can be swapped out independently from the
identifier method (form, jwt, basic auth).

## ORM Resolver

Identity resolver for the CakePHP ORM.

Configuration options:

* **userModel**: The user model identities are located in. Default is `Users`.
* **finder**: The finder to use with the model. Default is `all`.

In order to use ORM resolver you must require `cakephp/orm` in your `composer.json` file.

## Writing your own resolver

Authentication plugin can work with any ORM or datasource. All you need is to write your own resolver.
Resolvers must implement `Authentication\Identifier\Resolver\ResolverInterface` and should reside under `App\Identifier\Resolver` namespace.

Resolver can be configured using `resolver` config option:

```php
$service->loadIdentifier('Authentication.Password', [
    'resolver' => [
         // can be a full class name: \Some\Other\Custom\Resolver::class
        'className' => 'MyResolver',
        // Pass additional options to the resolver constructor.
        'option' => 'value'
    ]
]);
```

Or injected using a setter:

```php
$resolver = new \App\Identifier\Resolver\CustomResolver();
$identifier = $service->loadIdentifier('Authentication.Password');
$identifier->setResolver($resolver);
```
